Hymn #182 - One Thing Needful
Tune: EINS IST NOT
File: elh182.txt

[1] One thing needful! This one treasure
    Teach me, Savior, to esteem;
    Other things may promise pleasure,
    But are never what they seem;
    They prove to be burdens that vex us and chafe us,
    And true lasting happiness never vouchsafe us;
    This one precious treasure, that all else exceeds,
    Gives joy above measure and fills all my needs.

[2] Seekest thou the one thing needful,
    Leave all cares that hind'ring prove;
    Be of earthly joys unheedful,
    Fix thy heart on things above;
    For where God and man both in one are united,
    With God's perfect fullness the heart is delighted;
    There, there is the worthiest lot and the best,
    My one and my all, and my joy, and my rest.

[3] Then with Mary's full surrender,
    I would offer Thee my heart,
    At Thy feet my tribute render,
    As my chosen better part.
    For Mary's heart burning with fervent emotion,
    Was quickened to serve Thee with perfect devotion;
    And there filled with love for her Savior and Lord,
    Was, with the One needful, in blessed accord.

[4] Thus, O Jesus, my endeavor
    Is to be forever Thine.
    Let no mortal love whatever
    Hind'ring now my heart entwine.
    Though great be the host that refuses to heed Thee,
    I'll faithfully follow where'er Thou wilt lead me;
    For Thy Word is Spirit and life to my soul,
    And through it, O Jesus, my conduct control.

[5] Wisdom's fountain ever-flowing
    Has its highest source in Thee.
    By Thy grace confine my going
    In Thy footsteps, trod for me;
    In which I with lowly and perfect submission
    May bend to Thy wisdom my will and ambition;
    And when, O my Savior, I know Thee aright
    I then shall have risen to wisdom's great height.

[6] I have naught, my God, to offer,
    Save the blood of Thy dear Son;
    Graciously accept the proffer:
    Make His righteousness my own.
    His holy life gave He, was crucified for me;
    His righteousness perfect He now pleads before Thee;
    His own robe of righteousness, my highest good,
    Shall clothe me in glory, through faith in His blood.

[7] In Thine image then awaking,
    May my soul be all Thine own;
    Of Thy holy life partaking,
    Sanctified to Thee alone.
    For all that I need here, to serve and obey Thee,
    In Thee I receive--and my Savior, I pray Thee:
    From things transitory, absorbing my love,
    Withdraw mine affections, and fix them above.

[8] Jesus, in Thy cross are centered
    All the marvels of Thy grace;
    Thou, my Savior, once hast entered
    Through Thy blood the holy place:
    Thy sacrifice holy there wrought my redemption;
    From Satan's dominion I now have exemption;
    The way is now free to the Father's high throne,
    Where I may approach Him, in Thy name alone.

[9] Joys unnumbered, peace and blessing,
    Are the comforts full and free,
    Richly now I am possessing,
    For my Savior shepherds me.
    How sweet the communion, beyond all expression,
    To have Thee, O Jesus, as my heart's possession.
    O nothing in me can such ardor unfold
    As when I Thee, Savior, in faith shall behold.

[10] Henceforth Thou alone, my Savior,
     Shalt be all in all to me.
     Search my heart and my behavior,
     Cast out all hypocrisy.
     Restrain me from wand'ring in pathways unholy,
     And throughout life's pilgrimage keep my heart lowly;
     I'll value but lightly earth's treasure and store:
     Thou art the One needful, and mine evermore!
     Amen

Composers & Copyrights:
  Text: J. H. Schroeder, 1667-99
        Public Domain
  Tune: Johann A. Freylinghausen, 1670-1739
        Public Domain

Design of Hymn Text Library (c) 2009 Lutheran Music (www.LutheranMusic.com)