Hymn #111 - When Sinners See Their Lost Condition
Tune: WER WEISS, WIE NAHE
File: elh111.txt

[1] When sinners see their lost condition
    And feel the pressing load of sin,
    And Jesus cometh on His mission
    To heal the sin-sick heart within,
    All grief must flee before His grace
    And joy divine will take its place.

[2] When Jesus enters meek and lowly
    To fill the home with sweetest peace;
    When hearts have felt His blessing holy
    And found from sin complete release;
    Then light and calm within shall reign
    And hearts divided love again.

[3] When Jesus enters land and nation,
    And moves the people with His love,
    When yielding to His kind persuasion,
    Our hearts His truth and blessing prove,
    Then shall our life on earth be blest,
    The peace of God on us shall rest.

[4] When Jesus comes, O blessed story!
    He works a change in heart and life;
    God's kingdom comes with pow'r and glory
    To young and old, to man and wife;
    Through Sacrament and living Word,
    Faith, love, and hope are now conferred.

[5] Then stilled are cries and lamentation,
    Then loosed is Satan's ev'ry band,
    In death is hope and consolation,
    The soul is safe in Jesus' hand:
    When we shall walk through death's dark vale
    His rod and staff shall never fail.

[6] O may He soon to ev'ry nation
    Find entrance where He is unknown,
    With life and light and free salvation
    That heathendom may be o'erthrown,
    And healing to the hearts may come
    In heathen land and Christian home!

[7] Behold, He at the door is knocking!
    Hark, how He pleads our souls to win!
    Who hears His voice--the door unlocking--
    To sup with him He enters in.
    How blest the day, my soul, how blest
    When Jesus comes to be thy guest.

[8] Behold, He at the door is calling,
    O heed, my soul, what He doth say;
    Deny Him not--O thought appalling--
    And turn Him not from thee away.
    My soul gives answer deep within:
    Thou blessed of the Lord, come in.

[9] Come Thou who spreadest joy and gladness,
    Forever bide with me and mine,
    And bring to those who sit in sadness
    And gloom of death Thy light divine.
    A voice comes from my soul within:
    Thou blessed of the Lord, come in!
    Amen

Composers & Copyrights:
  Text: Magnus B. Landstad, 1802-80
        Public Domain
  Tune: Christian Mock, 1737-1818
        Public Domain

Design of Hymn Text Library (c) 2009 Lutheran Music (www.LutheranMusic.com)