Hymn #226 - By Grace I'm Saved
Tune: O DASS ICH TAUSEND ZUNGEN HATTE
File: elh226.txt

[1] By grace I'm saved, grace free and boundless;
    My soul, believe and doubt it not.
    Why stagger at this word of promise?
    Has Scripture ever falsehood taught?
    Nay; then this word must true remain:
    By grace thou, too, shalt heav'n obtain.

[2] By grace! None dare lay claim to merit;
    Our works and conduct have no worth.
    God in His love sent our Redeemer,
    Christ Jesus, to this sinful earth;
    His death did for our sins atone,
    And we are saved by grace alone.

[3] By grace! O mark this word of promise
    When thou art by thy sins oppressed,
    When Satan plagues thy troubled conscience,
    And when thy heart is seeking rest.
    What reason cannot comprehend
    God by His grace to thee doth send.

[4] By grace God's Son, our only Savior,
    Came down to earth to bear our sin.
    Was it because of thine own merit
    That Jesus died thy soul to win?
    Nay, it was grace, and grace alone,
    That brought Him from His heav'nly throne.

[5] By grace! This ground of faith is certain;
    So long as God is true, it stands.
    What saints have penned by inspiration,
    What in His Word our God commands,
    What our whole faith must rest upon,
    Is grace alone, grace in His Son.

[6] By grace! But think not, thou who livest
    Securely on in godless ways,
    That thou--though all are called--receivest
    The promised rest that wakes our praise.
    No one will find in heav'n a place
    Who loves to sin and scorns God's grace.

[7] By grace! They who have heard this sentence
    Must bid hypocrisy farewell;
    For only after true repentance
    The soul what grace imports can tell:
    To sin God's grace a trifle seems,
    To faith it bright with glory beams.

[8] By grace to timid hearts that tremble,
    In tribulation's furnace tried--
    By grace, despite all fear and trouble,
    The Father's heart is open wide.
    Where could I help and strength secure
    If grace were not my anchor sure?

[9] By grace! On this I'll rest when dying;
    In Jesus' promise I rejoice;
    For though I know my heart's condition,
    I also know my Savior's voice.
    My heart is glad, all grief has flown
    Since I am saved by grace alone.

[10] By grace! Sin, death, and Satan hearken!
     I bear my flag of faith in hand
     And pass--for doubts my joy can't darken--
     The Red Sea to the Promised Land.
     I cling to what my Savior taught
     And trust it, whether felt or not.
     Amen

Composers & Copyrights:
  Text: Christian L. Scheidt, 1709-61
        Public Domain
  Tune: Cornelius H. Dretzel, 1697-1775, alt.
        Public Domain

Design of Hymn Text Library (c) 2009 Lutheran Music (www.LutheranMusic.com)