Hymn #205 - If Thou but Trust in God to Guide Thee
Tune: WER NUR DEN LIEBEN GOTT
File: elh205.txt

[1] If thou but trust in God to guide thee
    And hope in Him through all thy ways,
    He'll give thee strength, whate'er betide thee,
    And bear thee through the evil days;
    Who trusts in God's unchanging love
    Builds on the rock that naught can move.

[2] What can these anxious cares avail thee,
    These never-ceasing moans and sighs?
    What can it help if thou bewail thee
    O'er each dark moment as it flies?
    Our cross and trials do but press
    The heavier for our bitterness.

[3] Only be still, and wait His leisure
    In cheerful hope, with heart content
    To take whate'er thy Father's pleasure
    And all discerning love hath sent;
    Nor doubt our inmost wants are known
    To Him who chose us for His own.

[4] He knows the time for joy, and truly
    Will send it when He sees it meet.
    When He has tried and purged thee duly,
    And finds thee free from all deceit,
    He comes to thee all unaware
    And makes thee own His loving care.

[5] Nor think amid the heat of trial
    That God hath cast thee off unheard,
    That he whose hopes meet no denial
    Must surely be of God preferred;
    Time passes and much change doth bring,
    And sets a bound to ev'rything.

[6] All are alike before the Highest;
    'Tis easy for our God, we know,
    To raise thee up, though low thou liest,
    To make the rich man poor and low;
    True wonders still by Him are wrought
    Who setteth up and brings to naught.

[7] Sing, pray, and keep His ways unswerving,
    So do thine own part faithfully,
    And trust His Word; though undeserving,
    Thou yet shalt find it true for thee.
    God never yet forsook at need
    The soul that trusted Him indeed.
    Amen

Composers & Copyrights:
  Text: Georg C. Neumark, 1621-81
        Public Domain
  Tune: Georg C. Neumark, 1621-81
        Public Domain

Design of Hymn Text Library (c) 2009 Lutheran Music (www.LutheranMusic.com)