Hymn #211 - Built on the Rock
Tune: KIRKEN DEN ER ET GAMMELT HUS
File: elh211.txt

[1] Built on the Rock the Church doth stand
    Even when steeples are falling;
    Crumbled have spires in ev'ry land,
    Bells still are chiming and calling,
    Calling the young and old to rest,
    But above all the soul distressed,
    Longing for rest everlasting.

[2] Surely in temples made with hands
    God, the Most High, is not dwelling,
    High above earth His temple stands,
    All earthly temples excelling.
    Yet He whom heav'ns cannot contain
    Chose to abide on earth with men--
    Built in our bodies His temple.

[3] We are God's house of living stones,
    Builded for His habitation;
    He through baptismal grace us owns
    Heirs of His wondrous salvation;
    Were we but two His name to tell,
    Yet He would deign with us to dwell
    With all His grace and His favor.

[4] Now we may gather with our King
    E'en in the lowliest dwelling;
    Praises to Him we there may bring,
    His wondrous mercy forthtelling;
    Jesus His grace to us accords,
    Spirit and life are all His words,
    His truth doth hallow the temple.

[5] Still we our earthly temples rear
    That we may herald His praises;
    They are the homes where He draws near
    And little children embraces;
    Beautiful things in them are said,
    God there with us His cov'nant made,
    Making us heirs of His kingdom.

[6] Here stands the font before our eyes,
    Telling how God did receive us;
    Th' altar recalls Christ's sacrifice
    And what His table doth give us;
    Here sounds the Word that doth proclaim
    Christ yesterday, today, the same,
    Yea, and for aye our Redeemer.

[7] Grant then, O God, where'er men roam,
    That, when the church bells are ringing,
    Many in Jesus' faith may come
    Where Christ His message is bringing:
    "I know mine own, mine own know me,
    Ye, not the world, my face shall see:
    My peace I leave with you, Amen."
    Amen

Composers & Copyrights:
  Text: Nikolai F. S. Grundtvig, 1783-1872
        Public Domain
  Tune: Ludvig M. Lindeman, 1812-87
        Public Domain

Design of Hymn Text Library (c) 2009 Lutheran Music (www.LutheranMusic.com)