Hymn #505 - O Lord, Who in Thy Love Divine
Tune: ST. PETERSBURG
File: elh505.txt

[1] O Lord, Who in Thy love divine
    Didst safely leave the ninety nine,
    In pity for a world undone,
    And gav'st Thy life to save the one,
    And didst in on Thy shoulders bear
    In joy to heav'n, receive our prayer.

[2] Thou who the night in pray'r didst spend
    And then Thy Twelve Apostles send;
    And bidd'st us pray the harvest's Lord
    To send forth sowers of the Word,
    Hear us and these Thy servants bless
    With sev'nfold gifts of holiness.

[3] Look down, with gracious eye behold,
    With watchful care protect Thy fold;
    Secure from hireling shepherds keep,
    Which feed themselves, and not the sheep,
    And when the prowling wolf is nigh,
    Forsake the flock in fear and fly.

[4] O Thou, who didst at Pentecost
    Send down from heav'n the Holy Ghost
    That He might with Thy Church abide
    Forever to defend and guide,
    Illuminate and strengthen, Lord,
    The preachers of Thy holy Word.

[5] May all Thy pastors faithful be;
    Not lab'ring for themselves, but Thee;
    And may they feed with wholesome food
    The sheep and lambs bought by Thy blood;
    Tending Thy flock, O may they prove
    How dearly they the Shepherd love!

[6] That which the Holy Scriptures teach,
    That, and that only, may they preach;
    May they the true foundation lay,
    Build gold thereon, not wood or hay;
    And meekly preach in days of strife
    The sermon of a holy life.

[7] As ever in Thy holy eyes,
    And stewards of Thy mysteries,
    May they the people teach to see
    Not, Lord, Thy ministers, but Thee;
    To see a loving Savior's face
    Revealed in all the means of grace.

[8] May they Thy word with boldness speak
    And bear with tenderness the weak;
    Not seeking their own things as best,
    But what may edify the rest;
    With wisdom and simplicity
    And, most of all, with charity.

[9] O may Thy people faithful be,
    And in Thy pastors honor Thee,
    And working with them for them pray,
    And gladly Thee in them obey;
    Receive the prophet of the Lord
    And gain the prophet's own reward.

[10] So may we, when our work is done,
     Together stand before the throne;
     And joyful hearts and voices raise,
     In one united song of praise,
     With all the bright celestial host,
     To Father, Son, and Holy Ghost.
     Amen

Composers & Copyrights:
  Text: Christopher Wordsworth, 1807-85
        Public Domain
  Tune: Dimitri S. Bortniansky, 1752-1825, adapt.
        Public Domain

Design of Hymn Text Library (c) 2009 Lutheran Music (www.LutheranMusic.com)